--- README for the early-stage development versions of  --- 
--- GalSim: The modular galaxy image simulation toolkit ---

For installation instructions, please see INSTALL.  There are tagged versions of
the code corresponding to specific project milestones and releases.  During the
code development process, these tagged versions may be the best ones to try if
you want a stable version of the code with specific capabilities.  (For more
info on tags see the "Milestone tags" Section below and docs/git.txt)


--- How to get started ---

1) We assume that all steps in INSTALL are complete.

2) Compile the code by running `scons' while sitting in the main directory of
this repository.  Optionally, install the software using `scons install' (or you
may need to run `sudo scons install' depending on whether or not you have root
privileges); for more details on options that can be used with scons, see
INSTALL.

3) Optional, but recommended whenever you try a new version of the code: run the
unit tests to make sure that there are no errors.  You can do this by running
`scons tests'.

4) Optional: run doxygen to generate documentation, using docs/Doxyfile to
specify all doxygen settings.


--- Demonstration scripts ---

Once these steps are completed, there are a number of scripts in examples/ that
demonstrate how the code can be used.  These are:

a) BasicDemo.py contains 3 demo scripts, which can all be run using `python
BasicDemo.py', or you can run them one at a time using `python BasicDemo.py 1'
and so on.  These scripts are heavily commented, and demonstrate GalSim commands
for simulating single objects of various types and checking their properties.

b) MultiObjectDemo.py also contains 3 demo scripts and is heavily commented to
serve as an example for new users.  It demonstrates functionality for handling
multi-object simulations, e.g., galaxy grids in the style of GREAT08/GREAT10,
and also simulations based on real galaxy training data from HST.

c) RealDemo.py is a single script demonstrating single-object simulation of
realistic galaxies using the DFT approach.

As the project develops through further milestones, and adds further
capabilities to the software, further demo scripts will be added to examples/ to
illustrate and showcase what GalSim can do.


--- Additional scripts ---

While scripts (a)-(c) can be run from the command-line while sitting in
examples/ without any arguments, the remaining scripts are auxiliary utilities
that take various command-line arguments, which are always explained in comments
at the top of the file.

* SBDraw.py can be used to generate individual images of single galaxies from
parametric models using the DFT approach.  The key information about the galaxy
to be simulated must be encoded in a string with a specific format that is
documented on pages 8-9 of docs/SBProfile.pdf.

* SBDrawShoot.py is parallel to SBDraw.py, but generates the images via
photon-shooting rather than the DFT approach.

* ShootInterpolated.py is a script that takes as input a filename for a FITS
image, which it will simulate (optionally sheared and/or resampled) via
photon-shooting.

* MeasMoments.py can be used to measure the adaptive moments (best-fit
elliptical Gaussian) for a FITS image.

* MeasShape.py can be used to carry out PSF correction using one of four
methods, given FITS images of the galaxy and PSF.


--- Milestone tags ---

After every GalSim general milestone we tag a snapshot of the code at that 
moment, with the tag name "milestoneN" where N is the milestone number.

You can see the available tags using the command "git tag -l" at terminal from 
within the repository.

The version of the code at any given milestone can then be checked out using the
tag name, e.g.:

$ git checkout milestone2

This will then update your directory tree to the snapshot of the code at the 
milestone requested.  (You will also get a message about being in a "detached" 
HEAD state.  That is normal.)
